https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-23917 MCOA (#8364)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: observability/obs_mcoa_intro.adoc

[#obs-mcoa-intro]
= Multicluster observability add-on

> Use the multicluster observability add-on to configure metrics collection by using names, matchers, and recording rules for both platform and user workloads. Edit your `ClusterManagementAddOn` resource, scale metric federation, and reduce data loss during network partitions between your managed and hub clusters.

Reviewer: Is this the very first sentence in this section? Shouldn't we explain a bit what the changes between enabling this and the default mode is?

To me it almost sounds like we're not collecting metrics at all, if we don't enable this.

Author: If that will help the user then sure. Can you help me understand the "default" mode

Reviewer: The "default" mode is what is already released and what we already document in the rest of the doc.

In 2.15 we release this alternative method of metric collection. The differences are well explained in Thibaults original document.

Author: OK, so you are requesting that I specifically write that this is an alternative way to collect metrics? From my perspective, the user assumes that metrics can be collected because they must install Observability anyways.

Reviewer: > From my perspective, the user assumes that metrics can be collected because they must install Observability anyways.

I don't follow. If you install Observability using the normal installation instruction metrics _will_ be collected.

If they want to use the _new_ method of metric collection, which replaces the "old" way of collecting metrics, they need to specifically enable that (which is explained in `Enabling the multicluster observability add-on`).

It should be clear in the introduction here that:

1) MCOA is a new way of collecting metrics from managed clusters
2) That it is not enabled by default
3) The main advantages/differences

This section is super confusing as it stands here.

Author: Thanks for providing your perspective and suggestions. I made updates

== Managed cluster workloads

> Managed cluster monitoring workloads use the Prometheus Operator and Prometheus Agent from the cluster observability operator. The multicluster observability add-on uses the existing `obo-prometheus-operator` from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observabililty Operator on a managed cluster to reconcile Prometheus custom resources. If `obo-prometheus-operator` is not present, the multicluster observability add-on deploys `obo-prometheus-operator` within the configured `agentInstallNamespace`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Managed cluster monitoring workloads use the Prometheus Operator and Prometheus Agent from the Cluster Observability Operator. The multicluster observability add-on uses the existing `obo-prometheus-operator` from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observabililty Operator on a managed cluster to reconcile Prometheus custom resources. If `obo-prometheus-operator` is not present, the multicluster observability add-on deploys `obo-prometheus-operator` within the configured `agentInstallNamespace`.
```

> Managed cluster monitoring workloads use the Prometheus Operator and Prometheus Agent from the cluster observability operator. The multicluster observability add-on utilizes the existing `obo-prometheus-operator` from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observabililty Operator on a managed cluster to reconcile Prometheus custom resources. If `obo-prometheus-operator` is not present, the multicluster observability add-on deploys `obo-prometheus-operator` within the configured `agentInstallNamespace`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Managed cluster monitoring workloads use the Prometheus Operator and Prometheus Agent from the cluster observability operator. The multicluster observability add-on uses the existing `obo-prometheus-operator` from {ocp} Cluster Observabililty Operator on a managed cluster to reconcile Prometheus custom resources. If `obo-prometheus-operator` is not present, the multicluster observability add-on deploys `obo-prometheus-operator` within the configured `agentInstallNamespace`.
```

Author: So the "Container Platform" part is not used in the product doc: https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_cluster_observability_operator/1-latest/html-single/about_red_hat_openshift_cluster_observability_operator/index

That's why I didn't use the ocp conref. However, we should add a conref for Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observability Operator. Accepting the change: utilize ---> uses

> Managed cluster monitoring workloads use the Prometheus Operator and Prometheus Agent from the cluster observability operator. The multicluster observability add-on utilizes the existing `obo-prometheus-operator` from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observabililty Operator on a managed cluster to reconcile Prometheus custom resources. If `obo-prometheus-operator` is not present, the multicluster observability add-on deploys `obo-prometheus-operator` within the configured `agentInstallNamespace`.

Author: ```suggestion
Managed cluster monitoring workloads use the Prometheus Operator and Prometheus Agent from the cluster observability operator. The multicluster observability add-on uses the existing `obo-prometheus-operator` from Red Hat OpenShift Cluster Observabililty Operator on a managed cluster to reconcile Prometheus custom resources. If `obo-prometheus-operator` is not present, the multicluster observability add-on deploys `obo-prometheus-operator` within the configured `agentInstallNamespace`.
```

Both of the multicluster observability add-on and Cluster Observabililty Operator share the `monitoring.rhobs` API Group for the `ScrapeConfig` and `PrometheusAgent` resources.

> For other managed clusters that are not OpenShift clusters, the following resources are deployed:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For other managed clusters that are not {ocp-short} clusters, the following resources are deployed:
```

Author: great catch!

- Node exporter
- Kube state metrics
- Prometheus server

*Note:* For clusters other than {ocp-short}, the cluster ID of other managed clusters use the `id.k8s.io` claim of the managed cluster, while the current endpoint operator uses the cluster name.

== Configurable APIs

Control monitoring behavior on your managed clusters by configuring default resource configurations. The following default resources are automatically created for platform monitoring and to have functional dashboards, `PrometheusAgent`, `ScrapeConfig`, and `PrometheusRule`. View the following descriptions of each API:

> `PrometheusAgent`:: Defines an agent-focused Prometheus deployment optimized for remote-write workflows. Configures remote-write targets, scrape intervals, and resource limits. Use the `PrometheusAgent` resource as your metrics collector.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`PrometheusAgent`:: Defines a Prometheus Agent deployment, a lightweight Prometheus. Configures remote-write targets, scrape intervals, and resource limits. Use the `PrometheusAgent` resource as your metrics collector.
```

> `ScrapeConfig`:: A list of metrics to be federated from a given `target`. Configure `job_name`, `metrics_path`, `params`, `relabel_configs`, and TLS settings. You can override the `target` configuration for user workloads.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ScrapeConfig`:: A list of metrics to be federated from a given `target`. Configure `job_name`, `metrics_path`, `params` and `relabel_configs`. You can override the `target` configuration for user workloads.
```

`PrometheusRule`:: Supports alerting and recording rule definitions that you can apply for each cluster. Supports groups of rules with evaluation intervals and alert annotations or labels.

> `ClusterManagementAddOn`:: Resources include an `AddonDeploymentConfig` to customize the deployment of the multicluster observability add-on on managed clusters. You can use this configuration the node placement and select the target namespace of the managed cluster, where the Prometheus Agent pods are deployed.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`ClusterManagementAddOn`:: Placements and configurations to be deployed to the managed clusters. Configurations include an `AddonDeploymentConfig` to customize the deployment of the multicluster observability add-on on managed clusters. You can use this configuration to customize the node placement and select the intstallation namespace on the managed clusters, where the Prometheus Agent pods are deployed.
```

+
*Note:* A single `AddonDeploymentConfig` resource is used for all placements. 

== Default platform metrics

> By default, the multicluster observability add-on collects platform metrics from your managed clusters. There are a set of `ScrapeConfig` resources that are automatically generated and deployed to all of your managed clusters. All placements that you reference within the `ClusterManagementAddOn` resource automatically receive the `ScrapeConfig` configurations.

Reviewer 3: I would add that these default scrapeConfigs enable fully operational platform dashboards.

The following default platform metrics are collected:

- `platform-metrics-hcp`, which is specific for the {hcp} platform
- `platform-metrics-virtualization`, which is specific for the {ocp-virt} platform
- `platform-metrics-alerts`, which is specific for custom alert rule metrics across all platforms
- `platform-metrics-default`, which is specific for default metrics across all platfroms

== Health status of the multicluster observability add-on

The multicluster observability add-on health status is reported through the `ManagedClusterAddOn` resource. From the {ocp-short} console for each managed cluster, the `ManagedClusterResource` is displayed in the *Fleet Management* view. The status is degraded if some resources are not deployed or the platform `PrometheusAgent` resource is not running.

> *Note:* For {ocp-short} versions earlier than version 4.20, select *All Clusters* from the cluster switcher.

Author: ```suggestion
*Note:* For {ocp-short} versions earlier than version 4.20, select *All Clusters* from the *Cluster* switcher.
```

The following alerting rules are pushed to all managed clusters:

`MetricsCollectorNotIngestingSamples`:: Alerts you when the `PrometheusAgent` resource is not federating any metrics.

> `MetricsCollectorRemoteWriteFailures`:: Alerts you when there is a high failure rate for remote-write requests in the `PrometheusAgent` resource of your hub cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`MetricsCollectorRemoteWriteFailures`:: Alerts you when there is a high failure rate for remote-write requests in the `PrometheusAgent` resource of the managed cluster.
```

[#obs-mcoa-intro]

> = Multicluster Observability add-on

Author: ```suggestion
= Multicluster observability add-on
```

PrometheusAgent::
- Defines an agent-focused Prometheus deployment optimized for remote-write workflows. Configures remote-write targets, scrape intervals, and resource limits.

ScrapeConfig::
- Declarative scrape definitions for targets and discovery mechanisms. Configure `job_name`, `metrics_path`, `scheme`, `relabel_configs`, and TLS settings.

PrometheusRule::
- Supports alerting and recording rule definitions that you can apply for each cluster or each tenant. Supports groups of rules with evaluation intervals and alert annotations or labels.

AddonDeploymentConfig::

ClusterManagementAddOn:: resources can include an `AddonDeploymentConfig` to customize the deployment of the multicluster observability add-on on managed clusters. You can use this configuration to set resource requests and limits for the Prometheus Agent pods deployed on managed clusters.

== Default platform metrics

By default, the multicluster observability add-on collects platform metrics from your managed clusters. The following default platform metrics are collected:

== Additional resources

> - enabling MCOA for metrics

Author: ```suggestion
- xref:../observability/obs_enable_mcoa.adoc#enable-mcoa[Enabling the multicluster observability add-on]
```

ClusterManagementAddOn:: Resources can include an `AddonDeploymentConfig` to customize the deployment of the multicluster observability add-on on managed clusters. You can use this configuration to set resource requests and limits for the Prometheus Agent pods deployed on managed clusters.

+
*Note:* A single `AddonDeploymentConfig` resource is used for all placements. 

[#default-platform-metrics]
== Default platform metrics

By default, the multicluster observability add-on collects platform metrics from your managed clusters. There are a set of `ScrapeConfig` resources that are automatically generated and deployed to all of your managed clusters. All placements that you reference within the `ClusterManagementAddOn` resource automatically receive the `ScrapeConfig` configurations.

The following default platform metrics are collected:

- `platform-metrics-hcp`, which is specific for the {hcp} platform
- `platform-metrics-virtualization`, which is specific for the {ocp-virt} platform
- `platform-metrics-alerts`, which is specific for custom alert rule metrics across all platforms
- `platform-metrics-default`, which is specific for default metrics across all platfroms

> [mcoa-add-res]

Author: ```suggestion
[#mcoa-add-res]
```
